Update Tocilizumab section (#548)
greenelab/covid19-review: content/20.treatments.md

These signalling pathways are involved in a variety of different functions, including cell type differentiation, immunoglobulin synthesis, and cellular survival signaling pathways, respectively [@doi:10.3389/fimmu.2016.00604].
The ultimate result of the IL-6 cascade is to direct transcriptional activity of various promoters of pro-inflammatory cytokines, such as IL-1, TFN, and even IL-6 itself, through the activity of NF-κB [@doi:10.3389/fimmu.2016.00604].
IL-6 synthesis is tightly regulated both transcriptionally and post-transcriptionally, and it has been shown that viral proteins can enhance transcription of the IL-6 gene by  strengthening the DNA-binding activity between several transcription factors and IL-6 gene-cis-regulatory elements [@doi:10.2492/inflammregen.33.054].
Therefore, drugs inhibiting the binding of IL-6 to IL-6Rα or sIL-6Rα are of interest for combatting the hyperactive inflammatory response characteristic of the cytokine storm.
TCZ is a humanized monoclonal antibody that binds both to the insoluble and soluble receptor of IL-6, providing de facto inhibition of the IL-6 immune cascade.

**Current Evidence.**

> Tocilizumab is being investigated either as a primary or supplemental treatment in {{ebm_tocilizumab_ct}} COVID-19 clinical trials curently registered at clinicaltrials.gov. 

Author: @agitter, this was my guess of how to invoke the stored information from the json file -- but I wanted to run it by you!

> Tocilizumab is being administered either as a primary or supplemental treatment in {{ebm_tocilizumab_ct}} COVID-19 clinical trials curently registered at clinicaltrials.gov. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Tocilizumab is being administered either as a primary or supplemental treatment in {{ebm_tocilizumab_ct}} COVID-19 clinical trials (Figure @fig:ebm-trials). 
```

Yep, you got the template variable syntax right.  This should populate the correct number after tonight's nightly external resources update 🤞

We can rephrase this to be more broad.  There are more sources than clinicaltrials.gov. The COVID-19 trials data source [says](http://covid19.trialstracker.net/about/)
> we get our trial data from the ICTRP which holds structured data from 18 individual trial registries including ClinicalTrials.gov

One idea would be to simply refer to the trials figure, which links to the original data source.  That's what I suggested here.

I don't know clinical trials terminology very well.  Does "primary or supplemental" cover trials where it is part of the standard of care?

#### Tocilizumab

TCZ is a receptor antibody that was developed to manage chronic inflammation caused by the continuous synthesis of the cytokine interleukin-6 (IL-6) [@doi:10.1101/cshperspect.a016295].
IL-6 is a pro-inflammatory cytokine belonging to the interleukin family, immune system regulators that are primarily responsible for immune cell differentiation.
Often used to treat conditions such as rheumatoid arthritis [@doi:10.1101/cshperspect.a016295], TCZ has become a pharmaceutical of interest for the treatment of COVID-19. 
While secretion of IL-6 can be associated with chronic conditions, it is a key player in the innate immune response that is secreted by macrophages in response to the detection of PAMPs or DAMPs [@doi:10.1101/cshperspect.a016295].

> An analysis of 191 in-patients at two Wuhan hospitals revealed that blood concentrations of IL-6 were elevated at admission in adult COVID-19 patients who ultimately deceased compared to those who survived and remained higher, on average, throughout the course of hospitalization [@doi:10/ggnxb3].

Reviewer 2: The second half of this sentence is a little confusing to me. So the IL-6 levels in those patients that were died were higher than those who survived?

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
An analysis of 191 in-patients at two Wuhan hospitals revealed that blood concentrations of IL-6 were elevated at admission in adult COVID-19 patients, who ultimately deceased, compared to those who survived[@doi:10/ggnxb3].

IL-6 levels remained higher on average, in those patients, who ultimately deceased, through the course of their hospitalization [@doi:10/ggnxb3].
```

Author: ```suggestion
An analysis of 191 in-patients at two Wuhan hospitals revealed that blood concentrations of IL-6 differed between patients who did and did not recover from COVID-19.
Patients who ultimately deceased had higher IL-6 levels at admission than those who recovered [@doi:10/ggnxb3].
Additionally, IL-6 levels remained higher throughout the course of hospitalization in the patients who ultimately deceased [@doi:10/ggnxb3].
```
Totally shaking things up! Does this help?

Reviewer 2: I like this A LOT better!

##### Anticipated Mechanism

Human IL-6 is a 26-kDa glycoprotein that consists of 184 amino acids and contains two potential N-glycosylation sites and four cysteine residues. 
It binds to a type I cytokine receptor (IL-6Rα or glycoprotein 80) that exists in both membrane-bound (IL-6Rα) and soluble (sIL-6Rα) forms [@doi:10.3389/fimmu.2016.00604].
It is not the binding of IL-6 to the receptor that initiates pro- and/or anti-inflammatory signaling, but rather the binding of the complex to another subunit, known as IL-6Rβ or glycoprotein 130 (gp13) [@doi:10.7150/ijbs.4989; @doi:10.3389/fimmu.2016.00604].
Unlike membrane-bound IL-6Rα, which is only found on hepatocytes and some types of leukocytes, gp130 is found on most cells [@doi:10.1007/s00430-006-0019-9].
When IL-6 binds to sIL-6Rα, the complex can then bind to a gp130 protein on any cell [@doi:10.1007/s00430-006-0019-9].
The binding of IL-6 to IL-6Rα is termed classical signaling, while its binding to sIL-6Rα is termed trans-signaling [@doi:10.1016/j.cytogfr.2012.04.001; @doi:10.1042/bj3000281; @doi:10.1007/s00430-006-0019-9].

> These two signaling processes are thought to play different roles in health and illness; for example, trans-signaling may play a role in the proliferation of mucosal T-helper TH2 cells associated with asthma, while an earlier step in this proliferation of process, the CD4+-cells towards the TH2 lineage, may be regulated by classical signaling, and IL-6 is known to play a role in Crohn's Disease via trans-, but not classical, signaling [@doi:10.1007/s00430-006-0019-9].

Reviewer 2: Maybe break up this sentence

Therefore, drugs inhibiting the binding of IL-6 to IL-6Rα or sIL-6Rα are of interest for combatting the hyperactive inflammatory response characteristic of CRS and CSS.
TCZ is a humanized monoclonal antibody that binds both to the insoluble and soluble receptor of IL-6, providing de facto inhibition of the IL-6 immune cascade.

**Current Evidence.**
Tocilizumab is being administered either as a primary or supplemental treatment in {{ebm_tocilizumab_ct}} COVID-19 clinical trials curently registered at clinicaltrials.gov. 
No randomized, placebo-controlled studies have been released yet for TCZ.
Therefore, no conclusions can be drawn about its efficacy for the treatment of COVID-19.
However, early interest in TCZ as a possible treatment for COVID-19 emerged from a very small retrospective study in China that examined 20 patients with severe symptoms in early February 2020 and reported rapid improvement in symptoms following treatment with TCZ [@doi:10.1073/pnas.2005615117].
Subsequently, a number of restrospective studies have been conducted in several countries.

> <!--

Author: I was going to add a table demonstrating some of the studies, but then I found that the most recent systematic review already did a better job...

For example, one of the largest retrospective, observational analysis released to date [@doi:10/d2pk] compared the rates at which patients who received TCZ deceased or progressed to invasive medical ventilation over a 14-day period compared to patients receiving only SOC.

Under this definition, SOC could include other drugs such as HCQ, azithromycin, lopinavir-ritonavir or darunavir-cobicistat, or heparin.
While this study was not randomized, a subset of patients who were eligible to receive TCZ were unable to obtain it due to shortages; however, these groups were not directly compared in the analysis.
After adjusting for variables such as age, sex, and SOFA score, they found that patients treated with TCZ were less likely to progress to invasive medical ventilation and/or death (adjusted hazard ratio = 0.61, CI 0.40-0.92, p=0.020), although analysis of death and ventilation separately suggests that this effect may have been driven by differences in the death rate (20% of control versus 7% of TCZ-treated patients).

> They reported particular benefits for patients whose P/F Ratio fell below a 150 mm Hg threshold and found no differences between groups administered subcutaneous versus intravenous TCZ.

Reviewer 2: What is the P/F ratio?

Another retrospective observational analysis of interest examined the charts of patients at a hospital in Connecticut, USA where 64% of all 239 COVID-19 patients in the study period were administered TCZ based on assignment by a standardized algorithm [@doi:10.1016/j.chest.2020.06.006].

> They found that survivorship was more similar in patients presenting with severe vs. nonsevere COVID-19  at intake (severe vs. nonsevere) when TCZ was administered and proposed that their algorithm was able to target TCZ to patients presenting with CRS.

Reviewer 2: A little confused by this sentence. So patients with severe or nonsevere covid had similar survival when treated with TCZ?

Author: ```suggestion
They found that TCZ administration was associated with more similar rates of survivorship in patients with severe versus nonsevere COVID-19 at intake, and they therefore proposed that their algorithm was able to identify patients presenting with CRS as good candidates for TCZ.
```
That is what they reported -- in the patients who got TCZ, their severity at intake was less strongly associated with whether they passed away.

Reviewer 2: Just to clarify, "severe patients" are referring to those with CRS?

Author: It doesn't actually! Maybe this is better:
```suggestion
They found that TCZ administration was associated with more similar rates of survivorship in patients with severe versus nonsevere COVID-19 at intake, defined based on the amount of supplemental oxygen needed.
They therefore proposed that their algorithm was able to identify patients presenting with or likely to develop CRS as good candidates for TCZ.
```

They also reported higher survivorship in Black and Hispanic patients compared to white patients when adjusted for age.
The major limitation with interpretation for these studies is that there may be clinical characteristics that influenced medical practitioners decisions to administer TCZ to some patients and not others.
One interesting example therefore comes from an analysis of patients at a single hospital in Brescia, Italy, where TCZ was not available for a period of time [@doi:10.1016/j.ejim.2020.05.009].

> This study compared COVID-19 patients admitted to the hospital before and after March 13, 2020, when the hospital received TCZ.

Reviewer 2: Was the characteristics of the patients similar before vs after? i.e. similar age, gender, severity of symptoms?

Author: Great question Alex. So they didn't do statistical tests but they don't look comparable! That is a great catch. See comment below.

> Therefore, patients who would have been eligible for TCZ prior to this arbitrary date did not receive it as treatment, making this retrospective analysis something of a natural experiment.

Author: ```suggestion
Therefore, patients who would have been eligible for TCZ prior to this arbitrary date did not receive it as treatment, making this retrospective analysis something of a natural experiment.
Despite this design, demographic factors did not appear to be consistent between the two groups, and the average age of the control group was older than the TCZ group.
The control group also had a higher percentage of males and a higher incidence of comorbidities such as diabetes and heart disease.
All the same, the multivariate hazard ratio, which adjusted for these clinical and demographic factors, found a significant difference between survival in the two groups (HR=0.035, CI=0.004-0.347, p = 0.004).
```
